High in this video we're going to consider some import variants as well as some common misconceptions.
So let's take a look at the various ways that we do important in Python.
Suppose we have some module that code module one and let's say we do import math.
That's kind of plain vanilla simplest import we can do import math what does that actually do.
Well the first thing it does is it checks to see is math in six modules so it looks at this dictionary
called.
Let's say we can see and modify insist manual's if it's not.
It loads the math model and inserts a reference to it insists modules.
So it creates this module from math in memory.
It's an object.
And it sets a reference to the math module with the key math insists modules.
Then the next step that it does is it adds the math symbol to model 1's global namespace referencing
the same object.
In other words if we look at the global namespace of module one we now will have the key math and will
have this module object and you'll notice that the math symbol is now in our namespace.
Now if the math symbol already exists in here then all it does it replaces the reference to be this
reference over here.
So in both cases what happens at the end of the day is that the math key the math symbol in Module 1
dog Global's is referencing the same object as the math symbol in the CIS modules not just look at the
second variant we can say.
Simple math as let's say underscore math.
All we're doing here is we aliasing the molecule map.
But let's see exactly how that happens.
First thing it does is it checks is math insist on modules.
Same as before.
It checks if it's not loads it and insults the reference but it is so the reference again just to math
not all math math.
That's the actual module.
Now it as the underscore math symbol to the module one is global namespace referencing the same object.
In other words if we look at our global namespace for module one we now have a symbol or a variable
name if you want called our underscore math.
And that will be the same object as the one that's in here on the map.
And you'll notice that our underscore map is a symbol in our namespace.
But math is not in our namespace.
All math is in all namespace math already exists as does the same thing.
It just replaces this reference to be the same as this reference over here that say we had our end of
school math equals 10 before and then we do import math as aren't as cool math it will just change this
reference to this one over here.
So at the end of the day we end up with these two references being the same OK.
How about from math.
Simple as Q a..
So here we're going to pick just a single function out of the math module.
What happens well it goes back again and checks his math and science modules the same as before.
So it checks the six modules.
If it's not load the math module and insert the reference.
And now what really changes is that it adds the symbol s q r t the square root symbol to our module.
Global namespace referencing the function math up as Courante.
So in our global namespace we now have the symbol s q r t.
And this object over here.
You'll notice that the math symbol is not in our namespace.
So the math module gets loaded up anyway and the only difference really is what happens in our namespace.
We have the s q r t symbol in our namespace but we don't have the math symbol in our namespace.
Now if the security symbol already exists it just replaces the reference.
Right so if we had let's say kyats equals 10 before and now we do from map import as q r t s q r t will
your reference will now change to be whatever the square root function is inside the model it's an object.
It's got a memory address that's going to be the memory address of the master as courante function or
this object.
How about this one from math import Eskew OTTI as our underscore as Q Arties.
So here with aliasing the symbol that we're importing from the math module while Guess what is math
insists modules is the forcing that it checks.
So it looks at that.
If it's not in there.
Load the module and insert the reference again.
It loaded the module.
And now what's different is that it adds a symbol to our global namespace the symbol name will be our
underscore square root and all reference the math dot square root function.
So now our global namespace will have our underscore square root.
You'll notice once more the math symbol itself is not in the namespace.
And if the underscore Square would simple already exist it just replaces the reference.
So you'll notice in all these cases the math module was loaded and was added to the CIS Bardwell's.
What changed in every variant of the temple is what was actually put inside our global namespace.
What symbol was Peeno were added to the namespace in our module.
What about this one from Maff impulse stuff Well guess what his math and science models.
If it is fine if it's not loaded and insert the reference and then what it does is it adds all and I'm
putting that in quotes because it doesn't necessarily import everything that's in that you know that's
in the math model.
We'll see how we can actually control that.
So the module being important can actually control what gets exported.
It can control its exports and we'll take a look at that in more detail.
So what happens here is that it's you know everything it finds that's that's being exported from the
Maff module goes inside our Goebels directly so pie for example will be there for the sine function
will be there the square wrote the exponential and everything that's in the math module so many many
more will get imported into our global namespace.
But once more the math symbol itself is not in the namespace and if any of these symbols already exist
they'll be overwritten essentially the reference will be overwritten to be the new reference.
So if we had Piko 3.1 forth before we called from math in Pollstar pi will now be pointing to the same
PI object that was defined in the math module.
So the commonality is that in every case the math module was loaded into memory and it was referenced
in six modules.
And then the you know the next time we do import math it's going to go unchecked in the CIS modules.
If math is already there great.
It doesn't have to reload it.
So when we run from math import Eskew.
There was no partial loading of math.
This wasn't more efficient to load.
It had to load the math module first anyways so there is a common misconception that if we say from
math import Eskew Arti that's more efficient because we're not loading the entire math module.
Well that's not true at all.
It is loading the entire module.
All we're doing is we're telling Python what do we want to be added to our namespace to our modules
namespace.
In this case I'm saying just add the Eskew Otty function to my namespace so it only affected what symbols
were placed in module ones namespace.
Now things are different with packages but for simple models this is the behavior.
And that's because we can actually control what gets exported and we'll see with packages where you
have basically modules and submodules you can think of it that way.
Then you can control what gets imported when you import let's say a top level the whole module.
But that's a little bit different when it comes to a module.
The whole thing is imported.
So for a module like math this isn't more efficient than just saying MBO man not why do some people
not like this impulse stuff.
While it can lead to bugs but it has its place.
It has some usefulness and we'll see that when we look at packages.
But let's say I wrote this kind of code.
I say I say from CMF.
That's the complex math library imports done.
Then what happens is that in my Global's for module one in my namespace I have now this symbol.
S q r t s q r t is a function in that C math module.
So it gets imported and while the CMF module gets imported and then the reference to the Q and t function
encima is set as a symbol in our global namespace.
And now let's say that the next line of code runs this from math.
Simple stuff.
Well what happened now.
Math also has an s courante function and a security symbol and ruined what I said about if the security
symbol already exists.
When I run this import here it will just update the reference.
So no Eskew t is actually the math as Q R T function and so you can see where this could lead to bugs
because essentially these two import stepped on each other.
Math basically replaced anything that had a common name.
So that's why we usually don't do any import stuff because you run the risk of overwriting you know
a symbol from a previous import in your module so it's not always very safe.
But if you're looking at something that's you know you know exactly what you are importing and you know
that you've got you know a pretty unique name like you have from time import perf counter what are the
library has per counter in it.
Right so.
And especially ones that you're going to import.
But when it comes to these large modules that have a long list of symbols you don't always know exactly
what's in that package and so you run the risk of overriding stuff so that's why the you know import
star is usually frowned upon because it's very easy to introduce bugs into your code.
Now what about efficiency what's more efficient.
Simple math or from math imports to import.
Square root.
That's another common misconception from an importing standpoint.
It's the same amount of work it has to import the math module.
The only difference is which symbol does it add to all global namespace does it add math or does it
add Eskew rescue T.
There's really no overhead you know in the impulse statement.
So what about calling.
Well there's two ways we can call.
If we did the simple math using this syntax over here then we have to reference the math symbol in our
models namespace and then call square root right.
Look at the square root function inside that math namespace and then call it with the value 2.
If we did the second approach from Mt..
Import square root then we just have to call square root of 2.
All it has to do here is just find what is the function and call it.
So in the first instance it needs to find the square root symbol in math namespace.
And how does it get the math namespace.
It has to look it up in our namespace.
It has to look up the math object.
Essentially in namespace and then it has to look up the square root function inside that namespace.
If we the from math import s q on t the s q r t.
Symbol is in our namespace and it directly points to the function being called.
So there is one less look up in this second syntax.
But if you think about what the lookups are the just dictionary lookups and in Python dictionary lookups
are super fast.
So is there really a lot of efficiency doing the second versus the first.
Not really.
We'll take a look at that will actually look at the code and timestamp and see how much of a difference
it is.
Now if you're running you know something if you're calling the square roots of function you know billions
of times sure it's going to make a difference.
But if you're calling it you know 10 times in your program it makes zero difference.
If you call it a million times it makes zero difference.
You call it 10 million times.
It makes almost zero difference.
So you know you have to think about this.
And as usual when you try to optimize code don't write this kind of syntax simply because you're trying
to optimize your code because our list runs faster.
I should do that do things for readability at least initially.
This is far more readable.
I understand that this is the square root function that came from math because maybe I've got the quote
function in C math.
How do I know which one it's using.
Then I've got to go and look up at you know look at the imports and then you know maybe I can put all
your imports at the top.
Maybe they're kind of scattered throughout and I've got to try and figure out what was the latest import
and did it modify the square root function here.
Where did the square root function come from.
Right so it's less readable.
I'm not going to start writing code to optimize unless I know that that is a bottleneck.
So until you've determined that this is causing a bottleneck in your code don't go ahead and write this
for optimization reasons.
So with that said let's just switch to some code and see all this in action.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.